Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the equity verse.
Today, we're going to talk about the S&P
500 dubious speculation. If you guys
like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on ITC premium at endthecryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, back in
February, we put out a video that said
that stocks would likely drop 10% soon,
right? This is back in February. And
again, it's not like it's you have to
have a crystal ball to try to figure out
when these corrections might occur. What
you look for is when you start to see
the momentum fade, right? And and you're
struggling to put in new highs, then you
start to argue, "Okay, maybe it's time
for one of those corrections." And in
this case, after such a massive move up,
we called for a 10% drop. This was back
in February. And in fact, when that
video was put out, yeah, I think it was
the week of the top, right? It was like
late January, early February.
Now,
after that, the stock market dropped
about 10%. Now, we said after that,
there are some definite cases where we
just right go right back up to all-time
highs as long as we see no
feedback loop in the labor market, and
layoffs have remained low, initial
claims remain low. Again, the market
loves to climb the wall of worry until
there is a sufficient reason not to do
so, and we haven't had that sufficient
reason just yet. Markets love to look
for optimism, and if you look at one way
to visualize that, if you look at a map
of the states where the unemployment
rate is rising, yeah, it looks like a
lot, but guess what prior recessions
looked like. It was the whole country,
right? It was the whole country in prior
recessions. And now, you can see it's
trending up in a lot of places, but
there's still
pockets
of optimism. Now, if you look at the the
a chart and you look at the number of
states where the unemployment rate is
rising over the last 6 months, it has
been elevated for a while. Um
but you can see it hasn't really broken
into these higher higher regions where
it's essentially the entire country. So,
I wanted to talk a little bit about my
framework for the rest of this year,
okay? And
the 10% drop happened and one of the
reasons why I was looking for that 10%
drop specifically is based on a fractal
that I still think will break, even
though I arguably it hasn't really
broken yet, and that's the S&P divided
by M2, okay? So, what I did back then is
I was I was just simply looking at at
that pattern and saying, "Look,
this fractal continues to play out going
all the way back to 1996 and when you
overlay it, right? When you overlay the
pattern, I just I just simply looked at
it and I was like, "All right, well, you
know,
this correction back in 2023
lined up with the one we had in 1997.
That was about a 10% drop. And then we
had the 20% drop. And then it looked
like, "All right, let's have a about a
10% drop." And it was. Now, what I'm
thinking is this, okay? First of all, I
want to be clear. I don't think this
fractal is going to completely play out.
There's a good chance it breaks to the
upside, in fact, okay? It could break to
the downside, but there's also a really,
really good chance it'll just break to
the upside until all the bears are
decimated and then you get a drop.
But
what I could see happening
is we are, you know, we are getting
close to some levels where you if that
S&P M2 correlation in time plays out,
you might start to expect a small
correction in the summer. Um sometime in
the June-July time frame. A small
correction, not yet a bigger one.
So,
one of the things that we've seen with
the stock market is that a lot of times
it'll have a correction early in the
year and then it'll have a correction
later in the year in midterm years.
Okay? So, let's go through this.
In 2022, you can see there was a big
correction in the early part of the year
and then you had another major low that
formed in the later part of the year.
This one was a little bit cleaner of
just a bear market, but again, a big
drop and then a rally and then another
drop going into the second half of the
year. In 2018, you had a very big drop
at the beginning of the year. Trump was
president. This was 2018, right? And
then another big drop at the end of the
year.
So, midterm years like to do that where
you have a drop, you know, multiple
drops throughout the year. You can see
in late 2014, there was also a drop. If
you look at the S&P M2 fractal, the next
larger drop likely won't start until the
third quarter of the year. So, what I
could see happening is this. I can see a
smaller drop happening in the summer
and then a rebound and then a larger
drop happening as we get later on into
Q3 going into early Q4. And then after
that, you might see a rebound once
again.
But that's how I think this is going to
play out. And the issue for Bitcoin, of
course, is that it's had all this time
to theoretically go to new all-time
highs if it was going to, if the super
cycle guys were right, but despite the
fact that the S&P keeps putting in new
all-time highs, Bitcoin keeps lagging.
The problem is that we're getting closer
and closer and closer to a correction by
the S&P 500, right? This is now how many
weeks in a row? I mean, you know, seven,
eight weeks in a row where the S&P has
just gone up only and at some point,
you're going to get at least a small
drop and when that happens, it'll likely
hit Bitcoin because Bitcoin's already
been lagging. And so then when the lower
risk stuff gets hit, that's when Bitcoin
will often get hit even harder. Think
about the people that bought altcoins in
2023, 2024, and 2025. They basically
just watched it bleed to Bitcoin. When
Bitcoin would go up, it would lift the
altcoin market with it, but the minute
Bitcoin started dropping, altcoins would
get annihilated. Now we're further down
the risk curve. Now Bitcoin goes up when
the stock market does, but because
it's in a bear market, whenever the
stock market then drops, Bitcoin then
gets hit harder. So it it doesn't really
participate in the rallies the same, but
then when the stock market drops, it
goes even lower. That's how it played
out in 2018, you know? The stock market
had two drops.
And you know, the second drop wasn't
that much lower than the first drop, but
Bitcoin went a lot lower on the second
drop by the S&P. So the same thing
happened by the way in 2022 as well. So
I think what's likely going to happen
again for the S&P, again just
spitballing dubious speculation. I'm not
like trading these ideas. I've I've I've
actually still own all my index funds
international and domestic. More bullish
on international at this point. But
until you start to see a distributive
top, it's hard to fade, right? It's hard
to fade. So what I'm looking for is a
small drop kind of in the June-July time
frame. Probably June if I had to guess.
And then a rebound and then maybe a
larger drop starting in September. Maybe
August, but September seems to be
an okay bet as well. If you look at
2018, you can see it started
in September. The S&P M2 factor would
actually correspond to September.
And you know, if that is the case, we
know that Bitcoin, well we don't know,
but I think Bitcoin might bottom in
October. And so if the stock market were
to top in September, then maybe Bitcoin
would bottom out pretty quickly just
because it would react to whatever the
stock market's reacting to a lot quicker
because it's just further up the risk
curve. It would get hit a lot quicker
than the stock market and potentially
Bitcoin then finds that low
sometime in the fourth quarter. Maybe as
early as as October. So those are my
thoughts on on the stock market.
And you know, if you if you want to look
at other things like energy and
manufacturing, I do spend a lot of time
talking about that over in ITC premium.
So I would encourage you guys to go
check that out. There's a lot of
mechanics and how these things work and
if you're getting bored of the markets
because you only care about crypto and
crypto's not doing that well, there's
been a lot of money to be made in other
parts of the markets. You just have to
be knowing you just have to know where
to look and you have to be willing to
not marry an asset class and not just
marry the crypto asset class and only
care about crypto, but to recognize that
you can actually have a portfolio that
grows with time most years by just
having a diversified portfolio. That
doesn't mean you can't ever take strong
directional bets on a couple of names,
right? Like I've done that before, but
there's also nothing wrong with having
some of your portfolio
diversified so that it can weather the
storms. If you're all in on crypto going
into a midterm year, it tends to not
work out that great. Whereas if you have
some exposure to metals and then stocks,
it then tends to actually give you much
better results. So those are my views.
Thank you guys for tuning in. Make sure
you subscribe, give the video a thumbs
up, check out the recent reports we put
out at benjamincowen.com,
and I will see you next time. Bye.